LPC, we mentioned that LCP, Largest contentful
paint, is the most important metric for
our website, right?
So it's the largest part of content
that the user's brain will parse,
so we need to hack that
as much as possible.
One thing that we can do is preload.
What is this?
It will help the browser discover
resources that are obscure in
the document.
Let's try to understand
what that is first.
Going back to our solution, that remember,
you can try on your own device,
let's see our content here.
Let me get out of this, Frontend Museum.
I think that image is our
largest contentful paint, okay?
So if you look at the image,
the image is gallery/ancient-greece.png,
okay, that's the name of the file.
Okay, when we see here,
it's not in the HTML.
So we know it's important.
Actually, it's the most important part for
performance.
We want that image as soon as possible,
right?
We all agree on that, right?
So if we go to the Network tab,
I'm going to move it.
Where is that jpg file here?
Let's see.
That's a script, that's a logo,
that's a gradient,
that's a font, the JSON,
ancient-greece, here it is.
So when we look at the diagram,
we wasted all this time to actually
download the file earlier.
And if I see the details of that,
we can see that it was
queued at 516 second.
What is that?
That is at that moment it was discovered.
When it's queued is when it's discover.
So for five seconds, the browser
didn't know about that PNG file.
That by the way, shouldn't be a PNG,
but that's for another slide.
So what's going on?
So we need to analyze what's going on.
Why is that the browser is not
downloading that PNG file faster?
Well, the problem is that on how this
website is being created, that there
are a lot of websites out there, like
there is a script file that we can see.
The script file, it's registering
an event on the load event, okay?
We already mentioned that.
Is it a good idea?
No, the load event will happen after all
the images and everything is downloaded.
So we can start helping this.
We can change onload for onDomContentLoaded
or use addEventListener.
It's DOMContentLoader.
So I'm going to call
load on DOMContentLoaded.
This will save a couple of milliseconds,
if not seconds,
to start executing this code.
Then this code is downloading a JSON file.
And based on that JSON file,
it's rendering articles on the screen.
That's why the image is
being discovered late.
So the browser needs to
execute the JavaScript.
So it was waiting for the load,
executing the JavaScript,
going and fetching the JSON,
then parsing the JSON,
then looping through the objects that
we have there, and creating HTML.
At one point, the browser says,
there is an image I need to go and find.
We lost not five seconds,
but probably four, and
we could download that PNG file earlier.
So we can, of course, change this.
So we have a big problem here.
The big problem is that this was
a bad idea from the first time, okay?
So rendering content on the screen based
on JavaScript that needs to download
a JSON file is a bad
idea from the scratch.
But let's say that for now we cannot
change that, what else we can do?
We can use preload.
So we can help the discovery
of that file with preload.
Preload is a link element that we can
set typically in the head of our HTML.
And in this case, we are going to help
that queue of discovered elements.
We are going to say, hey, browser,
we will need that PNG file.
You don't know yet that we will need that,
but believe me, I'm the author.
I know that you will need that later.
So for that, then we go to the HTML and
add that link.
It's link rel="preload".
The name is going to be images/,
no images, no, I'm sorry gallery/.
It was ancient-greece, and
it's mandatory to set as.
So I'm going to download this as an image,
as a style sheet, as a script.
So there is a list in
the spec of values for that 'as'.
So in this case,
we are moving within the timeline within
our waterfall chart,
the discovery of that element.
We will still have the problem that the
browser will not know what to do with it
for a while before
executing the JavaScript.
But at least when that moment is there,
the image is there waiting for
the browser, so
it will be rendered faster.
Does it make sense?
>> Sorry, so that link with the preload,
that line there when
actually display the image.
>> No.
>> It try to prepares it for when it's in.
So when is it actually
being asked to be rendered?
It's within that script?
>> We didn't change that,
we didn't change that part.
In this case, it's the script.
The only thing that we change,
we change the event.
So now instead of being the load event,
we improve that a little
bit on DOMContentLoader.
And within this event is
fetching that data.JSON.
And for each element that we have here,
we are creating
this little HTML that we're injecting,
and that HTML is gonna have an image.
>> Yeah, and so
at that line there in that loop there-
>> Here, and that line 13, actually,
not even in the line 13.
When we release the thread
of that event listener,
the browser will say, okay,
let's see what has just passed.
It will say, we have more HTML to render.
It will parse that new HTML,
it will update the DOM, and
it will realize that there is
a new image to render, and
it will fire the queue, not this one.
I think, yeah, this one.
It will need a resource.
It will check the cache.
It's in the cache.
So actually, it's a cache hit and
it's not expired.
So you will use the file from the cache.
It works like that, that's the idea.
So when you need it,
when the browser needs that file, it's there.
I'm in the final version.
No, I'm applying small updates, okay,
to these code to make it even better,
okay?
I'm not saying that it's fine, but
it's getting better on each iteration.
So how do I know?
And now it's better,
look at the image now.
Let's go like this
ancient-greece now is being
downloaded in parallel
with the CSS immediately.
I'm not saying it's being rendered
there after downloading the file,
because I'm not saying that
because it's not happening.
But at least it's being downloaded
as soon as possible, and
then when the JavaScript is executed.
This is the JavaScript file.
And then the data.json file is here.
So after this is parsed at that point,
it realized, yeah,
the image, but
the image was already downloaded.
So we use data preload, sorry, we use link
rel="preload" to help
that discovery process.
And we typically use that for elements
that are hidden or obscure in the HTML.
So we don't typically
do that with logo.png.
There is no need for that, because
logo.png is already in the HTML defined.
So the discovery will
happen anyway pretty soon.
>> What would happen if you
just put that on every single?
>> Well,
if you add that on every single element,
what happens is that when everything
is important, nothing is important.
So it's like not doing it, actually.
The advantage of using these APIs is that
now you have control to help the browser
prioritize what you need to make it
better that by default, the browser
doesn't know exactly what will happen with
that website with that rendering process.
But we know because we are the authors,
so we know what we are trying
to achieve here, and
then based with that we wanna improve LCP.
And we know that that image is the LCP,
then we apply that.
So this is one example for preload.
In our work code,
what other example do we have for preload?
How fonts work? This is a CSS file, okay?
So this link is not downloading the font.
This link is downloading the CSS
file that is pointing to a font.
Does it make sense?
If the font is important for LCP,
I'm not saying it's the case for
every case, we should check which
of these fonts are the ones I need.
How do I check that?
Well, maybe I can go to
the network layer and
see which font file is being downloaded.
It's this one.
So if I believe that font is mandatory for
the LCP,
don't do this for every font,
only for the one that you
know it will improve or
it may improve your web vitals.
You can go copy the URL, and add the rel
="preload", For the fonts file itself.
So rel="preload" href=,
that long list, long URL, as"font">.
So in this case, that URL,
the actual, it's a woff file.
That woff file was obscure for the HTML,
the HTML didn't know about that.
The HTML need to first download the CSS,
parse that CSS to actually
know that woff file.
Well, we can preload it,
that's another use case.
But again,
don't add preload on everything or
don't add preload with elements that
are already visible in the HTML.
So if you see the reference in the HTML,
you don't need to preload,
because it will be in the queue anyway.
Preload is being used to
actually help the discovery.
By the way, if you're wondering why,
if you try this Frontend Museum website,
every time you reload,
it's different, right,
the performance sometimes it's better,
sometimes it's worse.
It seems a little bit inconsistent, right?
Why is that?
And I'm sure if you were
curious enough to go and
see what's going on,
the server is actually making a pause.
It's a middleware in express.js
that is making a random delay.
Let's say a fake delay on every request
from 100 to 1,600 milliseconds.
So every request, every image,
every CSS will have a delay.
It's like the server is, or the latency.
I'm faking this so
we can see better in action how small
changes in the front end can
lead to much better web vitals.
So instead of adding it in the HTML,
you can even went a little
bit lower in the timeline and
add that as an HTTP
header in the response.
So you a browser,
you're asking me for the HTML and
I'm responding, I'm saying,
hey, go and download that CSS.
Here, you have the HTML.
So then your browser will know that CSS or
that woff file will be needed even
before starting rendering the HTML.
Does it make sense?
So then with the headers,
the browser will know that there is
a need to preload some other resources.